=pod

=head1 NAME

 CMP_validate_msg,
 CMP_validate_cert_path,
 CMP_print_cert_verify_cb

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/cmp.h>
 int CMP_validate_msg(CMP_CTX *ctx, CMP_PKIMESSAGE *msg);
 int CMP_validate_cert_path(CMP_CTX *ctx, const X509_STORE *trusted_store,
                            const X509 *cert);
 int CMP_print_cert_verify_cb(int ok, X509_STORE_CTX *ctx);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is the API for validating the protection of CMP messages,
which includes validating CMP server certificates and their paths
while optionally checking the revocation status of the certificates(s).

CMP_validate_msg() validates the protection of the given PKIMessage
using either password-based mac (PBM) or a signature algorithm.

In case of signature algorithm, the certificate to use for protection
validation is taken from ctx->srvCert if set. Otherwise potentially suitable
sender certificates are determined by matching the PKIMessage's sender DN and
senderKID to the certificates available in the PKIMessage's extraCerts,
ctx->untrusted_certs, and ctx->trusted_store.  The first candidate that can be
validated against ctx->trusted_store, utilizing ctx->untrusted_certs and
extraCerts, is used.

In case of successful validation of PBM protection of a certificate response,
the certificates in the caPubs field (if any) are added to ctx->trusted_store,
to be available for validating future messages in the same context.
Those could e.g. apply to later Polling Responses (pollRep) or PKI Confirmation
(PKIConf) messages in the same transaction.

If ctx->permitTAInExtraCertsForIR is true, a self-signed certificate from the
PKIMessage's extraCerts field may also be used as trust anchor during
protection validation if it can be used to validate the issued certificate
returned in IP.  This is according to 3GPP TS 33.310.

CMP_validate_cert_path() attempts to validate the given certificate and its path
using the given store of trusted certs (possibly including CRLs and a cert
verification callback) and non-trusted intermediate certs from the B<ctx>.

CMP_print_cert_verify_cb() is a diagnostic function that may be registered
using X509_STORE_set_verify_cb(), such that it gets called by OpenSSL's
verify_cert() function at the end of a cert verification as an opportunity
to gather and output information regarding a (failing) cert verification,
and to possibly change the result of the verification (not done here).
It returns 0 if and only if the cert verification is considered failed.

=head1 NOTES

CMP is defined in RFC 4210 (and CRMF in RFC 4211).

=head1 RETURN VALUES

CMP_validate_msg() returns 1 on success, 0 on error or validation failed.

CMP_validate_cert_path() returns 1 on successful validation and 0 otherwise.

=head1 EXAMPLE

=head1 SEE ALSO

CMP_CTX, CMP_ses
