=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_CMP_mock_server_perform,
OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_new,
OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_free,
OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_get0_ctx,
OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set1_certOut,
OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set1_chainOut,
OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set1_caPubsOut,
OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set_statusInfo,
OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set_checkAfterTime,
OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set_pollCount,
OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set_send_error,
OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set_send_unprotected_errors,
OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set_accept_unprotected,
OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set_accept_raverified,
OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set_grant_implicit_confirm
- functions to control a CMP mock server

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  #include <openssl/cmp.h>
  int OSSL_CMP_mock_server_perform(OSSL_CMP_CTX *cmp_ctx,
                                   const OSSL_CMP_MSG *req,
                                   OSSL_CMP_MSG **res);
  OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX *OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_new(void);
  void OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_free(OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX *srv_ctx);
  OSSL_CMP_CTX *OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_get0_ctx(const OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX *srv_ctx);

  int OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set1_certOut(OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX *srv_ctx, X509 *cert);
  int OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set1_chainOut(OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX *srv_ctx,
                                     STACK_OF(X509) *chain);
  int OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set1_caPubsOut(OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX *srv_ctx,
                                      STACK_OF(X509) *caPubs);

  int OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set_statusInfo(OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX *srv_ctx, int status,
                                      int fail_info, const char *text);
  int OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set_checkAfterTime(OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX *srv_ctx,
                                          int64_t sec);
  int OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set_pollCount(OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX *srv_ctx, int64_t count);

  int OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set_send_error(OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX *srv_ctx, int error);
  int OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set_send_unprotected_errors(OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX *srv_ctx,
                                                   int value);
  int OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set_accept_unprotected(OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX *srv_ctx,
                                              int value);
  int OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set_accept_raverified(OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX *srv_ctx,
                                             int raverified);
  int OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set_grant_implicit_confirm(OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX *srv_ctx,
                                                  int value);

=head1 DESCRIPTION


OSSL_CMP_mock_server_perform() mocks the server connection.
It is used similarly to B<OSSL_CMP_MSG_http_perform()>.
A B<OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX> must be set as B<transfer_cb_arg>.
Returns 0 on success and else a CMP error reason code defined in cmp.h.

OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_new() creates and initializes a OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX structure
and returns a pointer to it on success, NULL on error.

OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_free() deletes the given B<srv_ctx>.

OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_get0_ctx() returns the B<OSSL_CMP_CTX> from the B<srv_ctx>.

OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set1_certOut() sets the certificate to be returned in
cp/ip/kup.

OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set1_chainOut() sets the certificate chain to be added to
the extraCerts in a cp/ip/kup. It should to useful to validate B<certOut>.

OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set1_caPubsOut() sets the caPubs to be returned in an ip.

OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set_statusInfo() sets the status info to be returned.

OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set_checkAfterTime() sets the time the client should wait
for the next poll in seconds.

OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set_pollCount() sets the number of polls before cert response.

OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set_send_error() enables enforcement of error responses.

OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set_send_unprotected_errors() enables sending error messages
and other forms of negative responses unprotected.

OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set_accept_unprotected() enables acceptance of requests
with no or invalid protection.

OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set_accept_raverified() enables acceptance of ir/cr/kur
with POPO 'RAVerified'.

OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_set_grant_implicit_confirm() enables granting implicit
confirmation if requested.

=head1 NOTES

CMP is defined in RFC 4210 (and CRMF in RFC 4211).

=head1 RETURN VALUES

OSSL_CMP_mock_server_perform() returns 0 on success and else a CMP error
reason code defined in cmp.h.

OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_new() returns a B<OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX> structure on success,
NULL on error.

OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_free() does not return a value.

OSSL_CMP_SRV_CTX_get0_ctx() returns a B<OSSL_CMP_CTX> structure on success,
NULL on error.

All other functions return 1 on success, 0 on error.

=head1 EXAMPLE


=head1 SEE ALSO


=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007-2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
