=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_CMP_log_open,
OSSL_CMP_log_close,
OSSL_CMP_puts,
OSSL_CMP_log_printf,
OSSL_CMP_add_error_txt,
OSSL_CMP_add_error_data,
OSSL_CMP_add_error_line,
OSSL_CMP_print_errors_cb
- functions for logging and error reporting

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/cmp_util.h>

 typedef enum {OSSL_LOG_EMERG, OSSL_LOG_ALERT, OSSL_LOG_CRIT, OSSL_LOG_ERR,
               OSSL_LOG_WARNING, OSSL_LOG_NOTICE, OSSL_LOG_INFO, OSSL_LOG_DEBUG}
    OSSL_CMP_severity;
 /* declarations resemble those from bio/bss_log.c and syslog.h */
 typedef int (*OSSL_cmp_log_cb_t) (const char *component,
                                   const char *file, int lineno,
                                   OSSL_CMP_severity level, const char *msg);

 int  OSSL_CMP_log_open(void);
 void OSSL_CMP_log_close(void);
 int OSSL_CMP_puts(const char *component, const char *file, int lineno,
                   OSSL_CMP_severity level, const char *msg);
 int OSSL_CMP_log_printf(OSSL_cmp_log_cb_t log_fn,
                         const char *func, const char *file, int lineno,
                         OSSL_CMP_severity level,
                         const char *fmt, va_list argp);

 void OSSL_CMP_add_error_txt(const char *separator, const char *txt);
 #define OSSL_CMP_add_error_data(txt)
 #define OSSL_CMP_add_error_line(txt)
 void OSSL_CMP_print_errors_cb(OSSL_cmp_log_cb_t log_fn);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The logging facility described here is used so far only for
the CMP implementation but can also be used by any other components.

When an interesting activity is performed or an error occurs,
some detail should be provided for debugging and auditing purposes.
An application can obtain this information by providing a callback function
with the following type:

 typedef void (*OSSL_cmp_log_cb_t)(const char *component,
                                   const char *file, int lineno,
                                   OSSL_CMP_severity level, const char *msg);

The parameters may provide a component identifier (which may be a library
name and/or a function name, or NULL), a file path name (or NULL) and
a line number (or 0) indicating the source code location, and a string
describing the nature of the event.

Even when an activity is successful some warnings may be useful and some degree
of logging may be required. Therefore the logging callback function has a
B<level> parameter indicating the severity level, such that error, warning,
info, debug, etc. can be treated differently.

Moreover, the callback function may itself do non-trivial tasks like writing to
a log file or remote stream, which in turn may fail.
Therefore the function should return 1 on success and 0 on failure.

OSSL_CMP_log_open() should be called at least once at the beginning to perform
any potential initialization of the logging facility (currently none).

OSSL_CMP_log_close() should be called when all activity is finished to flush
any pending log output and deallocate log-related resources (currently none).

OSSL_CMP_puts() prints alerts, errors, and warnings to stderr,
whereas if prints note, info, and debug messages to stdout.
The nature of the message is specified by the B<level> parameter.
In debug mode the message B<msg> is preceded by any component identifier
B<component>, source file path name B<file>, and line number B<lineno>.
It is also preceded by any given severity indication, namely, "EMERGENCY",
"ALERT", "CRITICAL", "ERROR", "WARNING", "NOTICE", "INFO", or "DEBUG".

OSSL_CMP_log_printf() outputs alert/error/warning/note/info/debug messages.
The nature of the message is specified by the B<level> parameter.
The message text is given using a format string B<fmt> and a B<va_list>
as with vprintf. In debug mode
optional information in B<func>, B<file>, and B<lineno> parameters is included.
It uses the log callback function if given, else B<OSSL_CMP_puts()>.

OSSL_CMP_add_error_txt() appends text to the extra data field of the last
error message in the OpenSSL error queue, after adding the optional separator
unless data has been empty so far. Note that, in contrast,
L<ERR_add_error_data(3)> simply overwrites previous contents of the data field.

OSSL_CMP_add_error_data() is a macro calling
B<OSSL_CMP_add_error_txt()> with the separator being ":".

OSSL_CMP_add_error_line() is a macro calling
B<OSSL_CMP_add_error_txt()> with the separator being "\n".

OSSL_CMP_print_errors_cb() outputs any entries in the OpenSSL error queue
similarly to B<ERR_print_errors_cb()>, but using the CMP log callback function
C<log_fn> if given, else B<OSSL_CMP_puts()> for uniformity with CMP logging.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

OSSL_CMP_log_close(), OSSL_CMP_add_error_txt(), and OSSL_CMP_print_errors_cb()
do not return anything.

All other functions return 1 on success, 0 on error.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007-2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
