=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_CMP_sk_X509_add1_cert,
OSSL_CMP_sk_X509_add1_certs,
OSSL_CMP_X509_STORE_add1_certs,
OSSL_CMP_X509_STORE_get1_certs,
OSSL_CMP_X509_EXTENSIONS_dup,
OSSL_CMP_ASN1_OCTET_STRING_set1,
OSSL_CMP_ASN1_OCTET_STRING_set1_bytes
- functions manipulating lists of certificates etc

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  #include <openssl/cmp_util.h>

  int OSSL_CMP_sk_X509_add1_cert(STACK_OF(X509) *sk, X509 *cert,
                                 int not_duplicate, int prepend);
  int OSSL_CMP_sk_X509_add1_certs(STACK_OF(X509) *sk,
                                  const STACK_OF(X509) *certs,
                                  int no_self_signed, int no_duplicates);
  int OSSL_CMP_X509_STORE_add1_certs(X509_STORE *store, STACK_OF(X509) *certs,
                                int only_self_signed);
  STACK_OF(X509) *OSSL_CMP_X509_STORE_get1_certs(X509_STORE *store);
  X509_EXTENSIONS *OSSL_CMP_X509_EXTENSIONS_dup(const X509_EXTENSIONS *e);
  int OSSL_CMP_ASN1_OCTET_STRING_set1(ASN1_OCTET_STRING **tgt,
                                 const ASN1_OCTET_STRING *src);
  int OSSL_CMP_ASN1_OCTET_STRING_set1_bytes(ASN1_OCTET_STRING **tgt,
                                       const unsigned char *bytes, size_t len);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

OSSL_CMP_sk_X509_add1_cert() appends or prepends (depending on the B<prepend>
argument) a certificate to the given list,
optionally only if it is not already contained.

OSSL_CMP_sk_X509_add1_certs() appends a list of certificates to the given list,
optionally only if not self-signed and optionally only if not already contained.

OSSL_CMP_X509_STORE_add1_certs() adds all or only self-signed certificates from
the given stack to given store.

OSSL_CMP_X509_STORE_get1_certs() retrieves a copy of all certificates in the
given store.

OSSL_CMP_X509_EXTENSIONS_dup() copies a list of X.509 v3 extensions.

OSSL_CMP_ASN1_OCTET_STRING_set1() frees any previous value of the variable
referenced via the first argument and assigns either a copy of
the src ASN1_OCTET_STRING given as the second argument or NULL.
It returns 1 on success, 0 on error.

OSSL_CMP_ASN1_OCTET_STRING_set1_bytes() frees any previous value of the variable
referenced via the first argument and assigns either a copy of the given byte
string (with the given length) or NULL. It returns 1 on success, 0 on error.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

OSSL_CMP_X509_STORE_get1_certs() returns a list of certificates, NULL on error.

OSSL_CMP_X509_EXTENSIONS_dup()
returns NULL in case the input list is NULL and on error.

All other functions return 1 on success, 0 on error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OSSL_CMP_CTX_new(3)>, L<OSSL_CMP_exec_IR_ses(3)>,
L<OSSL_CMP_certreq_new(3)>, L<OSSL_CMP_MSG_http_perform(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007-2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
