=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_CMP_statusInfo_new,
OSSL_CMP_PKISI_PKIStatus_get,
OSSL_CMP_PKISI_PKIFailureInfo_get,
OSSL_CMP_PKISI_PKIFailureInfo_check,
OSSL_CMP_PKISI_failInfo_get0,
OSSL_CMP_PKISI_statusString_get0
OSSL_CMP_PKISI_snprint,
- functions for managing PKI status information

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  #include "cmp.h"
  OSSL_CMP_PKISI *OSSL_CMP_statusInfo_new(int status, int fail_info,
                                          const char *text);
  int OSSL_CMP_PKISI_PKIStatus_get(OSSL_CMP_PKISI *si);
  int OSSL_CMP_PKISI_PKIFailureInfo_get(OSSL_CMP_PKISI *si);
  int OSSL_CMP_PKISI_PKIFailureInfo_check(OSSL_CMP_PKISI *si, int bit_index);
  OSSLL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO *OSSL_CMP_PKISI_failInfo_get0(OSSL_CMP_PKISI *si);
  OSSL_CMP_PKIFREETEXT *OSSL_CMP_PKISI_statusString_get0(OSSL_CMP_PKISI *si);
  char *OSSL_CMP_PKISI_snprint(OSSL_CMP_PKISI *si, char *buf, int bufsize);

  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_badAlg               0
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_badMessageCheck      1
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_badRequest           2
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_badTime              3
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_badCertId            4
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_badDataFormat        5
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_wrongAuthority       6
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_incorrectData        7
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_missingTimeStamp     8
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_badPOP               9
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_certRevoked         10
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_certConfirmed       11
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_wrongIntegrity      12
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_badRecipientNonce   13
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_timeNotAvailable    14
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_unacceptedPolicy    15
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_unacceptedExtension 16
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_addInfoNotAvailable 17
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_badSenderNonce      18
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_badCertTemplate     19
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_signerNotTrusted    20
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_transactionIdInUse  21
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_unsupportedVersion  22
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_notAuthorized       23
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_systemUnavail       24
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_systemFailure       25
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_duplicateCertReq    26
  #define OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_MAX                 26

=head1 DESCRIPTION

OSSL_CMP_statusInfo_new() creates a new PKIStatusInfo structure and fills it
with the given values. It sets the status field to B<status>.  If B<text> is
not NULL, it is copied to statusString.  If B<fail_info> is >= 0 and <
OSSL_CMP_PKIFAILUREINFO_MAX, it is interpeted as bit pattern for the failInfo
field.  Returns a pointer to the structure on success, or NULL on error.

OSSL_CMP_PKISI_PKIStatus_get() returns the PKIStatus of B<si>, or -1 on error.

OSSL_CMP_PKISI_PKIFailureInfo_get() returns the PKIFailureInfo bits
of B<si>, encoded as integer, or -1 on error.

OSSL_CMP_PKISI_PKIFailureInfo_check() returns the state of the bit (0 or 1)
with index B<bit_index> in the PKIFailureInfo of the B<si>, or -1 on error.

OSSL_CMP_PKISI_failInfo_get0() returns a direct pointer to the failInfo
field contained in B<si>, or NULL on error.

OSSL_CMP_PKISI_statusString_get0() returns a direct pointer to the statusString
field contained in B<si>.

OSSL_CMP_PKISI_snprint() places at max B<bufsize> characters of human-readable
error string of B<si> in pre-allocated B<buf>. Returns pointer to the same
B<buf> containing the string, or NULL on error.

=head1 NOTES

CMP is defined in RFC 4210 (and CRMF in RFC 4211).

=head1 RETURN VALUES

See the individual functions above.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OSSL_CMP_CTX_create(3)>, L<OSSL_CMP_certreq_new(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007-2018 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
