=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_CMP_MSG_http_perform,
OSSL_CMP_proxy_connect,
OSSL_CMP_load_cert_crl_http_timeout
- implementation of HTTP transfer for CMP messages

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/cmp.h>

 int OSSL_CMP_MSG_http_perform(OSSL_CMP_CTX *ctx,
                               const OSSL_CMP_MSG *req,
                               OSSL_CMP_MSG **res);
 int OSSL_CMP_proxy_connect(BIO *bio, OSSL_CMP_CTX *ctx,
                            BIO *bio_err, const char *prog);
 int OSSL_CMP_load_cert_crl_http_timeout(const char *url, int req_timeout,
                                         X509 **pcert, X509_CRL **pcrl,
                                         BIO *bio_err);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is the API for creating a BIO for CMP (Certificate Management
Protocol) over HTTP(S) with OpenSSL.

OSSL_CMP_MSG_http_perform() sends the given PKIMessage req to the CMP server
specified in ctx. On success (return 0), assigns the server's response to *res.

OSSL_CMP_proxy_connect() uses the CONNECT method to access the HTTPS server
given in the ctx via the TLS-capable proxy referenced in the given bio.
Any message timeout contanined the ctx is respected.
The bio_err and prog arguments are used just for error printing.

OSSL_CMP_load_cert_crl_http_timeout() is a generalization of
B<load_cert_crl_http()> from B<apps/apps.c>.
It loads a certificate (if B<pcert> != NULL) or else a CRL via the given URL
with the given timeout. Any errors are reported via B<bio_err> (if not NULL).
On success the resulting cert or CRL is assigned to B<*pcert> or B<*pcrl>,
respectively.

=head1 NOTES

CMP is defined in RFC 4210 (and CRMF in RFC 4211).

=head1 RETURN VALUES

OSSL_CMP_MSG_http_perform() returns 0 on success or else an error reason code.
It uses ctx->http_cb if set and respects ctx->msgTimeOut.

OSSL_CMP_proxy_connect() returns 1 on success and 0 on error.

OSSL_CMP_load_cert_crl_http_timeout() returns 1 on success, 0 on timeout, -1 on
parse error, -2 on a receive error, -3 on send error, or -4 on other error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OSSL_CMP_CTX_new(3)>, L<OSSL_CMP_exec_IR_ses(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007-2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
