=pod

=head1 NAME

CMP_X509_EXTENSIONS_dup,
CMP_ASN1_OCTET_STRING_set1,
CMP_ASN1_OCTET_STRING_set1_bytes
- misc internal utility functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  #include "cmp_int.h"

  X509_EXTENSIONS *CMP_X509_EXTENSIONS_dup(const X509_EXTENSIONS *exts);
  int CMP_ASN1_OCTET_STRING_set1(ASN1_OCTET_STRING **tgt,
                                 const ASN1_OCTET_STRING *src);
  int CMP_ASN1_OCTET_STRING_set1_bytes(ASN1_OCTET_STRING **tgt,
                                       const unsigned char *bytes, int len);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

CMP_X509_EXTENSIONS_dup() copies a list of X.509 v3 extensions.

CMP_ASN1_OCTET_STRING_set1() frees any previous value of the variable
referenced via the C<tgt> argument and assigns either a copy of
the ASN1_OCTET_STRING given as the C<src> argument or C<NULL>.
It returns 1 on success, 0 on error.

CMP_ASN1_OCTET_STRING_set1_bytes() frees any previous value of the variable
referenced via the C<tgt> argument and assigns either a copy of the given byte
string (with the given length) or NULL. It returns 1 on success, 0 on error.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

CMP_X509_EXTENSIONS_dup()
returns NULL in case the input list is NULL and on error.

All other functions return 1 on success, 0 on error.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007-2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
