=pod

=head1 NAME

OSSL_CMP_HDR_generalInfo_item_push0,
OSSL_CMP_MSG_generalInfo_items_push1,
OSSL_CMP_HDR_push0_freeText,
OSSL_CMP_HDR_push1_freeText,
OSSL_CMP_MSG_create,
OSSL_CMP_MSG_load,
OSSL_CMP_HDR_get0_senderNonce,
OSSL_CMP_HDR_init,
OSSL_CMP_HDR_set1_recipient,
OSSL_CMP_HDR_set1_sender,
OSSL_CMP_HDR_set1_senderKID,
OSSL_CMP_HDR_update_messageTime,
OSSL_CMP_HDR_set_pvno,
OSSL_CMP_HDR_get_pvno,
OSSL_CMP_MSG_check_implicitConfirm,
OSSL_CMP_MSG_genm_item_push0,
OSSL_CMP_MSG_genm_items_push1,
OSSL_CMP_MSG_get_bodytype,
OSSL_CMP_MSG_set_bodytype,
OSSL_CMP_MSG_protect,
OSSL_CMP_MSG_add_extraCerts
- functions manipulating CMP messages

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  #include <openssl/cmp.h>

  int OSSL_CMP_HDR_generalInfo_item_push0(OSSL_CMP_PKIHEADER *hdr,
                                          OSSL_CMP_ITAV *itav);
  int OSSL_CMP_MSG_generalInfo_items_push1(OSSL_CMP_MSG *msg,
                                           STACK_OF(OSSL_CMP_ITAV) *itavs);
  int OSSL_CMP_HDR_push0_freeText( OSSL_CMP_PKIHEADER *hdr, ASN1_UTF8STRING *text);
  int OSSL_CMP_HDR_push1_freeText( OSSL_CMP_PKIHEADER *hdr, ASN1_UTF8STRING *text);
  ASN1_OCTET_STRING *OSSL_CMP_HDR_get0_senderNonce(const OSSL_CMP_PKIHEADER *hdr);
  int OSSL_CMP_HDR_init(OSSL_CMP_CTX *ctx, OSSL_CMP_PKIHEADER *hdr);
  int OSSL_CMP_HDR_set1_recipient(OSSL_CMP_PKIHEADER *hdr, const X509_NAME *nm);
  int OSSL_CMP_HDR_set1_sender(OSSL_CMP_PKIHEADER *hdr, const X509_NAME *nm);
  int OSSL_CMP_HDR_set1_senderKID(OSSL_CMP_PKIHEADER *hdr,
                                  const ASN1_OCTET_STRING *senderKID);
  int OSSL_CMP_HDR_update_messageTime(OSSL_CMP_PKIHEADER *hdr);
  int OSSL_CMP_HDR_set_pvno(OSSL_CMP_PKIHEADER *hdr, int pvno);
  int OSSL_CMP_HDR_get_pvno(const OSSL_CMP_PKIHEADER *hdr);
  int OSSL_CMP_MSG_check_implicitConfirm(OSSL_CMP_MSG *msg);
  OSSL_CMP_MSG *OSSL_CMP_MSG_create(OSSL_CMP_CTX *ctx, int bodytype);
  OSSL_CMP_MSG *OSSL_CMP_MSG_load(const char *file);
  int OSSL_CMP_MSG_genm_item_push0(OSSL_CMP_MSG *msg, OSSL_CMP_ITAV *itav);
  int OSSL_CMP_MSG_genm_items_push1(OSSL_CMP_MSG *msg,
                                    STACK_OF(OSSL_CMP_ITAV) *itavs);
  int OSSL_CMP_MSG_get_bodytype(const OSSL_CMP_MSG *msg);
  int OSSL_CMP_MSG_set_bodytype( OSSL_CMP_MSG *msg, int type);
  int OSSL_CMP_MSG_protect(OSSL_CMP_CTX *ctx, OSSL_CMP_MSG *msg);
  int OSSL_CMP_MSG_add_extraCerts(OSSL_CMP_CTX *ctx, OSSL_CMP_MSG *msg);
  typedef int (*allow_unprotected_cb_t) (const OSSL_CMP_CTX *ctx,
                                         const OSSL_CMP_MSG *msg,
                                         int invalid_protection, int arg);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

OSSL_CMP_HDR_generalInfo_item_push0() adds the given InfoTypeAndValue
item to the hdr->generalInfo stack. Consumes the B<itav> pointer.

OSSL_CMP_MSG_generalInfo_items_push1() adds a copy of the B<itavs> stack to
the generalInfo field of PKIheader of the B<msg>. Does not consume the B<itavs>
pointer.

OSSL_CMP_HDR_push0_freeText() pushes an ASN1_UTF8STRING to
hdr->freeText and consumes the given pointer.

OSSL_CMP_HDR_push1_freeText() pushes an ASN1_UTF8STRING to
hdr->freeText and does not consume the pointer.

OSSL_CMP_MSG_create() creates and initializes a OSSL_CMP_MSG structure,
using B<ctx> for the header and B<bodytype> for the body.
Returns pointer to created OSSL_CMP_MSG on success, NULL on error.

OSSL_CMP_MSG *OSSL_CMP_MSG_load() loads a OSSL_CMP_MSG from a B<file>.
Returns pointer to created OSSL_CMP_MSG on success, NULL on error.

OSSL_CMP_HDR_get0_senderNonce returns the sender nonce of the given PKIHeader.

OSSL_CMP_HDR_init() initializes a PKIHeader structure based on the
values in the given OSSL_CMP_CTX structure.

OSSL_CMP_HDR_set1_recipient() sets the recipient field in the given
PKIHeader to the given X509 Name value, without consuming the pointer.

OSSL_CMP_HDR_set1_sender() sets the sender field in the given PKIHeader
to the given X509 Name value, without consuming the pointer.

OSSL_CMP_HDR_set1_senderKID() Sets hdr->senderKID to the given
string. In IR this is the reference number issued by the CA. In KUR
this is set to the public key ID from the previously enrolled certificate.

OSSL_CMP_HDR_update_messageTime() sets the messageTime to the current system
time.

OSSL_CMP_HDR_set_pvno() sets hdr->pvno to the given B<pvno>.

OSSL_CMP_HDR_get_pvno() returns the pvno of the given B<hdr> or -1 on error.

OSSL_CMP_MSG_check_implicitConfirm() returns 1 if implicitConfirm is
set in the given PKIMessage, 0 if not.

OSSL_CMP_MSG_genm_item_push0() pushes the B<itav> to the body of the
of the PKIMessage B<msg> of GenMsg type. Consumes the B<itavs> pointer.

OSSL_CMP_MSG_genm_items_push1() adds a copy of the B<itavs> stack to the body
of the PKIMessage B<msg> of GenMsg type. Does not consume the B<itavs> pointer.

OSSL_CMP_MSG_get_bodytype() returns the body type of the given
PKIMessage.

ASN1_OCTET_STRING *OSSL_CMP_MSG_get_transactionID(const OSSL_CMP_MSG *msg)

OSSL_CMP_MSG_set_bodytype() sets the type of the message contained in
the PKIMessage body field.

OSSL_CMP_MSG_protect() protects the given message deciding on the algorithm
depending on the available context information:  If there is a secretValue it
selects PBMAC. If not and there is a clCert it selects Signature.  Generates and
sets the protection to the given message.

OSSL_CMP_MSG_add_extraCerts() fills the extraCerts field in the message.

=head1 NOTES

CMP is defined in RFC 4210 (and CRMF in RFC 4211).

The implementation of CMP for OpenSSL is still work in progress. The API
might change every release!

=head1 RETURN VALUES

See the individual functions above.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<OSSL_CMP_CTX_new(3)>, L<OSSL_CMP_exec_IR_ses(3)>,
L<OSSL_CMP_certreq_new(3)>, L<OSSL_CMP_MSG_http_perform(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007-2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
