=pod

=head1 NAME

  CMP_INFOTYPEANDVALUE_set,
  CMP_INFOTYPEANDVALUE_stack_item_push0 - CMP_INFOTYPEANDVALUE utility functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  #include <openssl/cmp.h>
  void CMP_INFOTYPEANDVALUE_set(CMP_INFOTYPEANDVALUE *itav,
                                const ASN1_OBJECT *type,
                                const ASN1_TYPE *value);

  #include "cmp_int.h"
  int CMP_INFOTYPEANDVALUE_stack_item_push0(
                                STACK_OF (CMP_INFOTYPEANDVALUE) **itav_sk_p,
                                const CMP_INFOTYPEANDVALUE *itav)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

CMP_INFOTYPEANDVALUE_set() sets the B<itav> with an infoType of B<type> and an
infoValue of B<value>. This function uses the pointers B<type> and B<value>
internally, so they must B<not> be freed up after the call.

CMP_INFOTYPEANDVALUE_stack_item_push0() is an internal function that pushes
B<itav> to the stack pointed to by B<*itav_sk_p>. It creates a new stack if
B<*itav_sk_p> points to NULL.

=head1 NOTES

CMP is defined in RFC 4210 (and CRMF in RFC 4211).

=head1 RETURN VALUES

CMP_INFOTYPEANDVALUE_set() does not return a value.

CMP_INFOTYPEANDVALUE_stack_item_push0() returns 1 on success, 0 on error.

=head1 EXAMPLE

The following code creates and sets a structure representing a generic
InfoTypeAndValue sequence, using an OID created from text as type, and an
integer as value. Afterwards, it is pushed to the CMP_CTX to be later included
in the requests' PKIHeader's genInfo field.


    ASN1_OBJECT *type = OBJ_txt2obj("1.2.3.4.5", 1);

    ASN1_INTEGER *asn1int = ASN1_INTEGER_new();
    ASN1_INTEGER_set(asn1int, 12345);

    ASN1_TYPE *val = ASN1_TYPE_new();
    ASN1_TYPE_set(val, V_ASN1_INTEGER, asn1int);

    CMP_INFOTYPEANDVALUE *itav = CMP_INFOTYPEANDVALUE_new();
    CMP_INFOTYPEANDVALUE_set(itav, type, val);

    CMP_CTX *ctx = CMP_CTX_new();
    CMP_CTX_geninfo_itav_push0(ctx, itav);

=head1 TODO

Evaluate whether CMP_INFOTYPEANDVALUE_stack_item_push0() should be listed in this
documentation - as it is an internal function.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<CMP_CTX(3)>,
L<ASN1_TYPE_set(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2002-2016 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
