=pod

=head1 NAME

 CMP_certreq_new,
 CMP_certConf_new,
 CMP_pollReq_new,
 CMP_cr_new,
 CMP_genm_new,
 CMP_error_new

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/cmp.h>

 CMP_PKIMESSAGE *CMP_certreq_new(CMP_CTX *ctx, int bodytype, int err_code);
 CMP_PKIMESSAGE *CMP_certConf_new(CMP_CTX *ctx, int failure, const char *text);
 CMP_PKIMESSAGE *CMP_pollReq_new(CMP_CTX *ctx, int reqId);
 CMP_PKIMESSAGE *CMP_genm_new(CMP_CTX *ctx);
 CMP_PKIMESSAGE *CMP_error_new(CMP_CTX *ctx, CMP_PKISTATUSINFO *si,
                               int errorCode,
                               STACK_OF(ASN1_UTF8STRING) *errorDetails);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is the API for creating different CMP related PKIMESSAGES. The
functions allocate a new message, fill it with the relevant data derived from
the given CMP_CTX, and create the applicable protection.

CMP_certreq_new() creates a PKIMessage for requesting a certificate, which can
be either of IR/CR/KUR/P10CR, depending on the given B<bodytype>.
The OpenSSL error reason code defined in err.h to use on error is given as
B<err_code>.

=over 4

Available CMP certificate request PKIMessage B<bodytype>s are:

=over 4

=item * B<V_CMP_PKIBODY_IR>    - Initialization Request

=item * B<V_CMP_PKIBODY_CR>    - Certification Request

=item * B<V_CMP_PKIBODY_P10CR> - PKCS#10 Certification Request

=item * B<V_CMP_PKIBODY_KUR>   - Key Update Request

=back

=back

CMP_certConf_new() creates a Certificate Confirmation message.

CMP_pollReq_new() creates a Polling Request message.

CMP_genm_new() creates a new General Message.

CMP_error_new() creates a new Error Message.

=head1 NOTES

CMP is specified in RFC 4210 (and CRMF in RFC 4211).

=head1 RETURN VALUES

All of the functions return a new CMP_PKIMESSAGE structure containing
the generated message on success, or NULL on error.

=head1 EXAMPLE

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<CMP_CTX(3)>,
L<ERR_load_strings(3)>
