=pod

=head1 NAME
CRMF_CERTREQMSG_set1_regCtrl_regToken,
CRMF_CERTREQMSG_set1_regCtrl_authenticator,
CRMF_CERTREQMSG_set1_regCtrl_pkiPublicationInfo,
CRMF_CERTREQMSG_set1_regCtrl_pkiArchiveOptions,
CRMF_CERTREQMSG_set1_regCtrl_protocolEncrKey,
CRMF_CERTREQMSG_set1_regCtrl_oldCertID

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/crmf.h>

 int CRMF_CERTREQMSG_set1_regCtrl_regToken(CRMF_CERTREQMSG *msg,
                                           ASN1_UTF8STRING *tok);
 int CRMF_CERTREQMSG_set1_regCtrl_authenticator(CRMF_CERTREQMSG *msg,
                                                ASN1_UTF8STRING *auth);
 int CRMF_CERTREQMSG_set1_regCtrl_pkiPublicationInfo(CRMF_CERTREQMSG *msg,
                                                     CRMF_PKIPUBLICATIONINFO *pi);
 int CRMF_CERTREQMSG_set1_regCtrl_pkiArchiveOptions(CRMF_CERTREQMSG *msg,
                                                    CRMF_PKIARCHIVEOPTIONS *aos);
 int CRMF_CERTREQMSG_set1_regCtrl_oldCertID(CRMF_CERTREQMSG *crm,
                                            CRMF_CERTID *cid);
 int CRMF_CERTREQMSG_set1_regCtrl_oldCertID_from_cert(CRMF_CERTREQMSG *crm,
                                                      X509 *oldc) {
 int CRMF_CERTREQMSG_set1_regCtrl_protocolEncrKey(CRMF_CERTREQMSG *msg,
                                                  X509_PUBKEY *pubkey);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

CRMF_CERTREQMSG_set1_regCtrl_regToken() sets the regToken control in the given
B<msg> using the given B<tok> as value. See RFC4211, section 6.1.

CRMF_CERTREQMSG_set1_regCtrl_authenticator() sets the authenticator control in
the given B<msg> using the given B<auth> as value. See RFC4211, section 6.2.

CRMF_CERTREQMSG_set1_regCtrl_pkiPublicationInfo() sets the pkiPulicationInfo
control in the given B<msg> using the given B<tok> as value. See RFC4211, section
6.3.

CRMF_CERTREQMSG_set1_regCtrl_pkiArchiveOptions() sets the pkiArchiveOptions
control in the given B<msg> using the given B<tok> as value. See RFC4211, section
6.4.

CRMF_CERTREQMSG_set1_regCtrl_oldCertID() sets the oldCertID control in the given
B<msg> using the given B<tok> as value. See RFC4211, section 6.5.

CRMF_CERTREQMSG_set1_regCtrl_oldCertID_from_cert() sets the oldCertID control in
the given B<msg> using the certID derived from the given B<oldc> as value. See
RFC4211, section 6.5.

CRMF_CERTREQMSG_set1_regCtrl_protocolEncrKey() sets the protocolEncrKey control
in the given B<msg> using the given B<tok> as value. See RFC4211, section  6.6.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

All return 1 on success, 0 on error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<RFC 4211>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007-2017 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
